---
title: "JOB MARKET PAPER: Anti-Black Hate Crimes and Black-White Health Gap"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2015-10-01-paper-title-number-3
paperurl: 'http://anna-jaskiewicz.github.io/files/AnnaJaskiewicz_JMP.pdf'
---
In 2019, 65% of Black Americans resided in a county that reported at least one anti-Black hate crime. High exposure to race-motivated violence may induce psychological stress among Black individuals, contributing to the racial disparities in health. In this paper, I conduct two separate yet complementary studies that document the adverse effects of anti-Black hate crimes on the health outcomes of Black infants and adults. First, I leverage a rich data set consisting of all nationwide birth records from the National Center for Health Statistics to show that in utero exposure to local anti-Black aggravated assaults is associated with lower birth weights and shorter gestation lengths among Black infants. These effects are substantial. For Black infants, exposure to over five anti-Black aggravated assaults during gestation is linked to a decrease in birth weight equivalent to the effect of in utero exposure to the 9/11 attacks. Second, using restricted-access Emergency Department Data from the California Department of Health Care Access and Information, I find an increase in the volume of chest pain-related Emergency Department visits among Black adults in the days that follow an anti-Black aggravated assault in their area of residence. This increase is the most immediate in places with high access to local news media and dissipates in places with little access to local news media. In contrast to these results, I report that the effects on White infants and adults are negligible in magnitude and largely insignificant. Taken together, this suggests that stress associated with exposure to local anti-Black hate crimes may be a vital contributor to the racial health disparities present in the United States.
